2025 survey results blog post (#3232)
nf-core/website: sites/main-site/src/content/blog/2025/survey-results-2025.mdx

import barglobaldetails from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-barglobaldetails.png";

import fineuserpositive from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-fineuserpositive.png";
import fineuserimprove from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-fineuserimprove.png";
import fineuserrequest from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-fineuserrequest.png";
import finedevpositive from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-finedevpositive.png";
import finedevimprove from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-finedevimprove.png";
import finedevrequest from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-finedevrequest.png";

import { Image } from "astro:assets";

## Introduction

nf-core has a huge community of 11,000 members (based on Slack users), and this number does not seem appear to be diminishing.
As the community gets bigger, it is getting harder to keep track of all the discussions happening across all of our Slack channels, and increasingly in face-to-face talks on Slack huddles and gather.town.

> Therefore the core team has decided to hold a yearly community survey to help provide us with an overview of the mood of community and in which ways the 'wind is blowing' in terms of needs and requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore the core team has decided to hold a yearly community survey to help provide us with an overview of the mood within the community and in which ways the 'wind is blowing' in terms of needs and requirements.
```

> With this information, we plan to develop a roadmap for the continued development and progress the nf-core ecosystem and community over the next few years.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this information, we plan to develop a roadmap for the continued development and progress of the nf-core ecosystem and community over the next few years.
```

## Key points

- We had 209 responders, representing 1.8% of our Slack community.

> - nf-core has a responder NPS score of 54, representing a very positive opinion of nf-core, and are likely to recommend the community to colleagues and peers.

Reviewer: I doubt people know what an NPS score is or how it is calculated.

Author: It's described below

- The community itself was the biggest positive aspect of nf-core, with responders finding it a welcoming, friendly, and helpful group of people.
- While the existing amount of documentation was appreciated, it remains the biggest target for improvement primarily in terms of discoverability and consistency.

## Methodology

> In mid-february 2025, we sent out on Slack a simple survey for all community members, regardless of whether they are users, developers, newcomers, or veterans of nf-core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In mid-february 2025, we sent a simple survey out on Slack for all community members, regardless of whether they are users, developers, newcomers, or veterans of nf-core.
```

This short 7 question survey asked the following main questions

1. Community member type (user, developer, or both)
2. Experience within nf-core (1 newcomer - 5 advanced)
3. What country based in (country list)
4. How likely to recommend nf-core (0-10 scale)
5. What is liked the most about nf-core (free text)
6. What difficulties have been encountered (free text)

> 7. Any other feedback (free) text

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Any other feedback (free text)
```

The survey was open for approximately a month, with one reminder halfway through.

> The answers from first four questions responses were aggregated and summarised as distributions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The answers of the first four questions were aggregated and summarised as distributions.
```

> The free text answers from the latter three questions were assigned with one or more of various types of tags to group the response points into similar feedback topics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The free text answers from the latter three questions were assigned with one or more of various types of tags to group the responses into similar feedback topics.
```

This tagging was independently performed by two core members and compared.

> Tagging was performed within Google Drive, and then all data was cleaned up, processed, and visualised R with the tidyverse set of packages.

Reviewer: "the tidyverse set of packages" sounds a bit odd.

Author: It's what it is, change dit to collections for clarity

## Geographic Distribution

We had responders based in 36 different countries, spanning the Americas, Europe, Africa, Asia and Oceania.

<Image
    src={worldmap}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    width={600}
    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="World map with countries that the survey received at least response from filled in green."
/>

The top 5 countries with the greatest number of responders came from the USA, UK, Germany, Sweden, and Spain.
Other than the USA, all other countries in the top 10 countries by of responders are in Europe, emphasising the origins of the community.

<Image
    src={locationdistribution}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    width={600}
    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Barchart of countries on Y axis and responder counts on the X axis"
/>

## Responder type and experience

To get a better idea of the type of experience or interaction the responders may have had of nf-core, we can look at how they classified themselves.

<Image
    src={respondertype}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    width={600}
    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Barchart of type of responder (user, developer, both, snakemake developer, no feedback) on Y axis and responder counts on the X axis"
/>

> We received a relatively equal spread of users, developers, those who both use and develop nf-core pipelines, and one apparently disgruntled Snakemake developer.

Reviewer: loooool

We also wanted to understand the level of experience each of these groups felt they had by asking them to score their confidence in using or developing pipelines.

<Image
    src={confidence}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    width={600}
    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Three barcharts for each type of responder (user, developer, both), with count on the Y axis and the self-reported confidence as a user or developer on the X axis"
/>

After excluding the responses with no responder type and the snakemake developer, we can see that the developer and user/developer responders mostly felt relatively confident with developing within nf-core, users were more evenly spread but with a skew towards being feeling less confident in using nf-core pipelines.

## Overall happiness with nf-core

> The first feedback question we asked was a general 'how satisfied' or 'happy' are you with the initiative and community as a whole on a scale of 0-10.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first feedback question we asked was a general 'how satisfied' or 'happy' you are with the initiative and community as a whole on a scale of 0-10.
```

There were so many comments on this the reviewers end up splitting this into multiple different categories, and these are still some of the most commented on issues encountered when working with nf-core.

These categories spanned from finding the whole ecosystem very overwhelming to get started with or it being unclear how to get involved (for both users or developers), and setting up nf-core pipelines on infrastructure.
Another curious discordance with the positive feedback is that while people appreciate the consistency within pipelines due to the common template, people often felt the template was too complex.
A related feedback was some users finding the pipelines were too large and complicated to get started with.

Other common categories were related to release speed of pipelines and tools/template (typically that they are too fast and there are too many, although sometimes _not fast enough_)
Communication in terms of how and who decisions within nf-core get made was also sometimes brought up, as well as problems with setting up and debugging the recently implemented nf-test tooling.

> Finally, confusingly a common issue was also Nextflow itself, however the reviewers felt this appears to be either to be due to a misunderstanding that `Nextflow != nf-core`, and the strength of the feelings of Python developers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, confusingly a common issue was also Nextflow itself, however the reviewers felt this appears to be either due to a misunderstanding that `Nextflow != nf-core` or the strength of the feelings of Python developers.
```

Reviewer: "the strenght of the feelings of Python developers" not sure what you mean by that

Author: Made it more explicit :grimacing:

import cloudglobalpositive from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-cloudglobalpositive.png";
import cloudglobalrequests from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-cloudglobalrequests.png";
import barglobaldetails from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-barglobaldetails.png";

import fineuserpositive from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-fineuserpositive.png";
import fineuserimprove from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-fineuserimprove.png";
import fineuserrequest from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-fineuserrequest.png";
import finedevpositive from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-finedevpositive.png";
import finedevimprove from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-finedevimprove.png";
import finedevrequest from "@assets/images/blog/survey-results-2025/nfcoresurvey2025-finedevrequest.png";

import { Image } from "astro:assets";

## Introduction

nf-core has a huge community of 11,000 members (based on Slack users), and this number does not seem appear to be diminishing.

> As the community gets bigger, it is getting harder to keep track of all the discussions happening across all of our Slack channels, and increasingly in face-to-face talks on Slack huddles and gather.town.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As the community gets bigger, it is getting harder to keep track of all the discussions happening across all of our Slack channels, as well as the face-to-face talks on Slack huddles and gather.town.
```

Therefore the core team has decided to hold a yearly community survey to help provide us with an overview of the mood within the community and in which ways the 'wind is blowing' in terms of needs and requirements.

With this information, we plan to develop a roadmap for the continued development and progress of the nf-core ecosystem and community over the next few years.

## Key points

- We had 209 responders, representing 1.8% of our Slack community.

> - nf-core has a responder NPS score of 54, representing a very positive opinion of nf-core, and are likely to recommend the community to colleagues and peers.

Reviewer 2: First appearance of the acronym, also I saw @FranBonath comment and your response @jfy133 but maybe we could add a pointer to the explanation below like "explained below"
```suggestion
- nf-core has a responder Net Promoter Score (NPS) score of 54, representing a very positive opinion of nf-core, and are likely to recommend the community to colleagues and peers.
```

- While the existing amount of documentation was appreciated, it remains the biggest target for improvement primarily in terms of discoverability and consistency.

## Methodology

In mid-february 2025, we sent a simple survey out on Slack for all community members, regardless of whether they are users, developers, newcomers, or veterans of nf-core.
This short 7 question survey asked the following main questions

1. Community member type (user, developer, or both)
2. Experience within nf-core (1 newcomer - 5 advanced)
3. What country based in (country list)
4. How likely to recommend nf-core (0-10 scale)
5. What is liked the most about nf-core (free text)
6. What difficulties have been encountered (free text)
7. Any other feedback (free text)

The survey was open for approximately a month, with one reminder halfway through.

The answers of the first four questions were aggregated and summarised as distributions.

The free text answers from the latter three questions were assigned with one or more of various types of tags to group the responses into similar feedback topics.
This tagging was independently performed by two core members and compared.

> Tagging was performed within Google Drive, and then all data was cleaned up, processed, and visualised R with the tidyverse set of packages.

Author: ```suggestion
Tagging was performed within Google Drive, and then all data was cleaned up, processed, and visualised R with the Tidyverse collection of packages.
```

/>

We received a relatively equal spread of users, developers, those who both use and develop nf-core pipelines, and one apparently disgruntled Snakemake developer.

We also wanted to understand the level of experience each of these groups felt they had by asking them to score their confidence in using or developing pipelines.

<Image
    src={confidence}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    height={600}

    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Three barcharts for each type of responder (user, developer, both), with count on the Y axis and the self-reported confidence as a user or developer on the X axis"

/>

After excluding the responses with no responder type and the snakemake developer, we can see that the developer and user/developer responders mostly felt relatively confident with developing within nf-core, users were more evenly spread but with a skew towards being feeling less confident in using nf-core pipelines.

## Overall happiness with nf-core

The first feedback question we asked was a general 'how satisfied' or 'happy' you are with the initiative and community as a whole on a scale of 0-10.

> Based on the values, we can calculate a ['net promoter score'](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Net_promoter_score) or NPS, which is a market research metric to evaluate the general satisfaction and approximate loyalty responders have.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Based on the values, we can calculate the [NPS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Net_promoter_score), which is a market research metric to evaluate the general satisfaction and approximate loyalty responders have.
```

/>

Even though many are happy with the documentation, much of the difficulties encountered were to related documentation - particularly for new users on how to run pipelines and how to install and configure for their infrastructure.
Furthermore some user-only responders were somewhat concerned about the variable pipeline quality encountered between pipelines.

<Image
    src={fineuserimprove}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    height={600}

    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Bar chart of counts of feedback category types as evaluated by the two reviewers for users and improve tags"

/>

Most users-only responders did not feel they needed anything more and only had positive sentiments about the community.
But as with the the above - documentation and training improvements was the most important.

<Image
    src={fineuserrequest}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    height={600}

    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Bar chart of counts of feedback category types as evaluated by the two reviewers for users and request tags"

/>

## Developer Feedback

For developers-only, once again the community feel and inclusivity alongside expertise was a big draw.

> The high quality of the open-source pipelines, modules, and infrastructure was also a big plus point

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The high quality of the open-source pipelines, modules, and infrastructure was also a big plus point.
```

<Image
    src={finedevimprove}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    height={600}

    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Bar chart of counts of feedback category types as evaluated by the two reviewers for developers and improve tags"

/>

Finally, as with users - in terms of extra feedback the strongest category of feedback comments were just positive vibes.
More merchandise ideas were requested, as well as few people requesting clearer and more consistent standards and specifications when developing.

<Image
    src={finedevrequest}
    class="d-block m-auto"
    height={600}

    density={[1.5, 2]}
    alt="Bar chart of counts of feedback category types as evaluated by the two reviewers for developers and requests tags"

/>

## So what's next?

The core team will take some time process the results, including holding discussions with steering and maintainers teams.
We aim to develop a roadmap with priority areas where coordination efforts will be driven towards to address the feedback.

Once this roadmap is ready, we will present it to the community via another blog post for feedback and implementation.

> Thank you to all the responders to the survey, and we hope the results of this survey and future ones will make the community even more proud of our collective efforts to making user-friendly, powerful, and reproducible workflows.

Reviewer 2: :heart:
